
--- Seite 1 ---
 
Bern University of Applied Sciences | Haute école spécialisée bernoise | Bern University of Applied Sciences 
1 
 
AI policy for the BFH Business School 
Use and declaration of AI-supported tools in studies 
April 2023 
 

--- Seite 2 ---
 
Bern University of Applied Sciences | Haute école spécialisée bernoise | Bern University of Applied Sciences 
2 
1  Foundations for AI tool usage and disclosure 
The following guidelines apply to the utilization and disclosure of AI-supported tools in the context of 
assessing competence, especially particularly regarding written work such as the Bachelor's or Master's 
theses: 
• 
Employing AI-supported text production tools, such as ChatGPT, Elicit, and ResearchRabbit is 
permissible with the academic context, but their usage must be explicitly disclosed in the written 
work. 
• 
Be mindful of the limitations inherent of these tools. Relying on simple prompts (system inputs) 
typically leads to low-quality outcomes. Enhanced results can be attained through prompt 
engineering techniques. 
• 
Scrutinize the AI tools’ system responses, especially when it comes to literature references, as these 
tools are prone to hallucination, i producing erroneous outputs. A fact should be considered reliable 
only when corroborated by and additional source.  
• 
Ultimately, you are responsible for any inaccuracies or omissions stemming from the AI tool. You 
are best equipped to evaluate the correctness and comprehensiveness of the content within your 
area of expertise.  
• 
The utilization of AI-supported writing tools must be comprehensively documented at the end of a 
thesis, written competence assessment, or a term paper. This documentation should include the 
product name, the type of function used, and the scope of functions. Failure to provide this 
information violates the principles of academic integrity.  
• 
ChatGPT and other AI-based text generation tools are not considered authors and thus cannot be 
cited in the text. However, text passages generated by these tools must still be identified as non-
authored content (e.g., through footnotes or a different font). 
2 Attribution for AI-generated content 
Texts or text passages generated using AI-supported writing tools should be marked as "personal 
communication": 
 
Example 1: Cite ChatGPT following the Harvard style: 
 
(OpenAI's ChatGPT AI language model, personal communication, 04.04.2023) 
Example 2: Cite ChatGPT following the German style (first footnote and subsequent footnotes): 
  
1OpenAI's ChatGPT language model, response to author's query, 04 April 2023.2 ChatGPT, 
04 April 2023. 
 
In the conclusion of the paper (e.g., term paper, bachelor's thesis or master's thesis), the use of AI-
supported writing tools must be comprehensively documented in an overview that includes the product 
name, function type,  and scope of functions, as follows: 
• 
The specific AI tool utilized   
• 
Function type, i.e., the tool’s purpose, such as:  
a. Direct AI-generated text 
b. Rewritten AI text 
c. Linguistic revision of the author’s text 
• 
The extent of usage (e.g., number of lines/pages in the paper) it was used and  
• 
The method of usage (i.e, the prompts entered)  
 
 

--- Seite 3 ---
 
Bern University of Applied Sciences | Haute école spécialisée bernoise | Bern University of Applied Sciences 
3 
Example 
The following is a suggested format of presenting information about AI-supported tool usage at the 
end of written work. Alternative formats are acceptable, provided they contain the required information. 
 
Annex XY:  Utilization of AI-based tools  
 
[Name of Tool] 
 
 
p.17, lines 3-16 
Paraphrased from ChatGPT (25.2.23) Prompt:  original text 
p.34, lines 8-14 
Sourced from ChatGTP (13.5.23) 
Prompt: "text text"; statements verified 
and supported with literature sources 
p.41, lines 9-15 
Adopted from Elicit (31.03.2023) 
Summary of the top 4 articles; 
statements cross-referenced with cited 
literature sources 
 
3 Declaration of authorship  
When AI-supported tools have been employed in the preparation of written work, the declaration of 
authorship must be supplemented at the end of the text as follows:  
 
"I confirm that I have independently written this thesis y. All passages in the text not authored by me 
are clearly marked and accompanied by precise references to their origin. The sources used (including 
illustrations, graphics, etc.) are listed in the bibliography or list of sources. 
 
I further confirm that I have exercised critical judgment throughout the preparation of this student 
research project and have not adopted AI-generated texts or text fragments generated without due 
reflection. " 
 
 
Note 
The AI Policy is largely based on (Mollick (2023) and Gimpel et al. (2023) and supplements the document 
"AI-based writing tools in teaching - ChatGPT in focus. An orientation guide for teachers" by the Virtual 
Academy of the BFH. 
 
• 
Gimpel, H. et al. (2023) Unlocking the Power of Generative AI Models and Systems such as GPT-
4 and ChatGPT for Higher Education. A Guide for Students and Lecturers. Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.20710.09287/2. 
• 
Mollick, E. (2023) AI Policy. Available at: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/emollick_i-added-an-
ai-policy-to-my-syllabus-we-activity-7021676210443145216-FVhy/ (Accessed: 31 March 2023). 
• 
BFH Virtual Academy (2023): AI-based writing tools in teaching - ChatGPT in focus. An 
orientation guide for teachers, version 1.0. Bern, 22 April 2023 
