
--- Seite 1 ---
Regulations applying to the preparation of written
assign ments
Version 1.4 of 4 September 201 8
l. Purpose and scope of this document
Requirements
Size
Method of citation
Art. I tThese regulations set out the mandatory rules that apply to
important aspects of all written assignments submitted as part of a
bachelor's or master's degree course in the Section Business and
Administration of Bern University of Applied Sciences.
2"Wr¡tten assignments" are all assignments submitted in paper or
electronic form.
3The person responsible for marking an assignment has the right to
define rules that differ from or supplement those set out here in the
corresponding task instructions. These rules are also to be
considered mandatory.
2. The acceptance of written assignments
Art.21On enrolling at Bern University of Applied Sciences, Business
School, all students enter into an undertaking that they will not use
inappropriate methods or means to prepare written assignments.
2 Every wr¡tten assignment must thus contain a declaration as
follows:
"l herewith confirm that this assignment is my own work. All
texts cited from other works are identified as quotations and
provided with precise references to their sources. All sources
employed by me (including sources of illustrations, graphics etc.)
are acknowledged in the bibliography. Date, signature."
3. Formal requirements for written assignments
Art. 3 1 ln many cases, there are requirements with regard to the
length of a written assignment that are also mandatory. Length is
defined in terms of the number of characters or in some cases, where
the layout is defined, the number of pages
2 L¡sts and appendices are excluded from the character count
Art.41A uniform and consistent method of citation is to be used in
written assignments, and students are free to choose the citation
standard they wish to employ.
2 lrrespective of the standard employed, the following requirements
apply:
a Accuracy (abbreviated source references and list of
Berner Fachhochschule I Haute école spécialisée bernoise I Bern University ofApplied Sciences
Seite I

--- Seite 2 ---
Literature and sources
Fig u res
Abbreviations
Summary
references): All references to sources must be
accurate.
b Comprehensiveness (abbreviated source references and list of
references): All essential information required to ident¡fy a
source must be provided.
c consistency (abbreviated source references and list of references):
All information must be provided in a uniform format.
Art. 51 A mandatory requirement is that all sources consulted
during the preparation of a written assignment (literature and other
types of sources) are to be cited in a list with all necessary
bibliographic details.
2The full details of all sources for which an abbreviated source
reference is provided in the text must be given in a list of references
There must be at least one reference in the text to each source
entered in a list of references.
Art. 6 t "Figures" are images, graphics, illustrations and tables
included in a written assignment.
2 All figures
a must be supplied with a reference to their source
b must have an appropr¡ate title
c must be consecutively numbered
d a list of figures must be compiled whenever more than five figures
appear in a written assignment.
Art.7 Abbreviations
a must be written out in full in brackets following the abbreviat¡on
or in a footnote when it first appears in the text
b an appropriate list must be compiled whenever more than five
abbreviations appear in a written assignment.
Art. 8 A written assignment must be provided with a content
summary (Management Summary or an abstract) unless otherwise
specified in the task instructions.
Appendix
Art. 9 lAny additional materials that are required to clarify particular
details of the assignment are to be included in an appendix.
2 Materials that do not help clarify aspects of the assignment are
not to be included in the appendix.
3 Materials required by the reader to understand the basic argument
Berner Fachhochschule I Haute école spécialisée bernoise I Bern University of Applied Sciences 
Se¡te 2

--- Seite 3 ---
Formal deficiencies
Academic dishonesty and
plagiarism
of the assignment must be included, in whole or part, in the main
body of the text.
a ln any case of uncerta¡nty with regard to where to include part¡cular
materials, these are to be omitted and instead a reference to the
materials that can be requested from the author should be
provided.
4. Formal deficiencies, academic dishonesty and plagiarism
Art. l0 1A written assignment shall be considered to have formal
deficiencies if one or more of the requirements specified in Arts.
2-t0 of these regulations are not met. As a rule, this will result in
the assignment be¡ng awarded a lower grade.
2 The person responsible for marking the assignment shall decide, at
his/her own dis- cretion, how serious any formal deficiency is and
shall adjust the grade or reject the submitted assignment as
appropriate.
Art. I I 1 Academic dishonesty with regard to written assignments
takes the form of
a Falsification of data, information, research findings etc.
b The failure to declare that help has been obtained with writing
anassignment (the use of a ghostwriter)
c The verbatim reproduction or use of a paraphrase of texts written
by others (in whole or part) without providing a citation or reference
to the source (full, partial, translated and paraphrased plagiarism).
d The repeated submission of a self-composed written text (self-
plagiarism)
e Other actions designed to deceive readers or acquire for the
author benefits through dishonest or morally quest¡onable
means.
2Any identified cases of the above shall be dealt with in
accordance with the plagiarism guidelines of Bern University of
Applied Sciences dated l0 December 2008.
3ln less serious cases, the offender shall be refused the
corresponding proof of competence; in serious cases, the offender
may be excluded from the course.
aThere is no statute of limitations for the above offences
Berner Fachhochschule I Haute école spécialisée bernoise I Bern University of Applied Sciences
Se¡te 3

--- Seite 4 ---
Guidelines
Approved by the Management Team on 4 September 201 8.
Business School
Head of Business School
I 
lttt (-,u
Prof. Dr. lngrid Kissling
5. Helpful resources
Art. l3 The document "Guidelines for the production of wr¡tten
assignments" has been produced to help students of the Business
School to comply with the formal requirements for wr¡tten
assignments.
Berner tachhochschule I Haute école spécialisée bernoise lBern University of Applied Sciences
Seire 4
